readme.md, before:

# OAuth Token Generator

A VS Code extension that generates bearer tokens for OAuth providers using the client credentials flow. Supports Auth0, Okta, Azure AD, and any custom OAuth provider.

**👉 [Complete Getting Started Guide](GETTING_STARTED.md)** - Step-by-step walkthrough with examples

## Features

- 🔐 **Secure Credential Storage**: Uses VS Code's built-in secure storage for OAuth credentials
- 🌍 **Multi-Provider Support**: Configure Auth0, Okta, Azure AD, or custom OAuth providers
- 🔄 **Multi-Environment Support**: Configure and switch between different environments (dev, staging, prod)
- 📱 **Sidebar Panel Integration**: View and manage environments and tokens from the left-hand activity bar
- 🎨 **Responsive Design**: UI adapts seamlessly to narrow panels and different screen sizes
- 🔑 **Multiple Auth Methods**: Supports both request body credentials and Basic Authentication headers
- 🎯 **Custom Headers**: Add custom HTTP headers to token requests with environment variable support
- ⚡ **Quick Token Generation**: Generate bearer tokens with a single command or from the sidebar
- 📋 **Clipboard Integration**: Automatically copies generated tokens to clipboard
- 💾 **Token Caching**: Caches valid tokens to avoid unnecessary API calls
- 📊 **Status Bar Integration**: Shows current environment and provides quick access
- ✏️ **Easy Management**: Edit, delete, and manage configurations with intuitive icon buttons
- 🧪 **Credential Testing**: Test your OAuth configuration before saving
- 🌳 **Tree View**: Visual organization of environments and tokens in the sidebar

## Getting Started

📚 **New to this extension?** Check out our [comprehensive Getting Started guide](GETTING_STARTED.md) with step-by-step examples and sample configurations!

### 1. Install the Extension

Install the extension in VS Code:

1. Open the Command Palette (`Ctrl+Shift+P` / `Cmd+Shift+P`)
2. Select `Extensions: Install from VSIX...`
3. Select the provided VSIX file
4. Reload VS Code

### 2. Configure OAuth Credentials

1. Open the Command Palette (`Ctrl+Shift+P` / `Cmd+Shift+P`)
2. Run `OAuth: Configure Credentials`
3. Fill in your OAuth application details:
   - **Environment Name**: A friendly name (e.g., "dev", "staging", "prod")
   - **OAuth Provider**: Select your provider (Auth0, Okta, Azure AD, or Custom)
   - **Token Endpoint**: The full URL to your OAuth token endpoint
   - **Client ID**: Your OAuth application's client ID
   - **Client Secret**: Your OAuth application's client secret
   - **Audience**: (Optional) The API identifier/resource for your OAuth API
   - **Scope**: (Optional) Space-separated list of scopes
   - **Authentication Method**: Choose how credentials are sent:
     - **Credentials in Request Body** (Default) - Standard OAuth 2.0 flow
     - **Basic Authentication Header** - For providers requiring HTTP Basic Auth
   - **Content Type**: Select request format (JSON or Form Encoded)
   - **Custom Headers**: (Optional) Add custom HTTP headers with dynamic values

#### Example Configurations

**Auth0:**
- Token Endpoint: `https://your-tenant.auth0.com/oauth/token`
- Audience: `https://your-api.example.com`

**Okta:**
- Token Endpoint: `https://your-domain.okta.com/oauth2/default/v1/token`
- Scope: `api:read api:write`

**Azure AD:**
- Token Endpoint: `https://login.microsoftonline.com/{tenant-id}/oauth2/v2.0/token`
- Scope: `https://graph.microsoft.com/.default`

**Custom Provider with Basic Auth:**
- Token Endpoint: `https://api.example.com/oauth2/token`
- Authentication Method: `Basic Authentication Header`
- Content Type: `Form Encoded`
- Custom Headers:
  - `X-EnterpriseId`: `your-enterprise-id`
  - `X-StoreId`: `your-store-id`
  - `X-Context`: `${TENANT_CONTEXT}` (uses environment variable)

### 3. Using the Sidebar Panel

The extension adds a sidebar panel to the left-hand activity bar where you can:

- **View all configured environments** - See your dev, staging, and prod configurations at a glance
- **View cached tokens** - Check which tokens are stored and when they expire
- **Generate tokens quickly** - Click any environment to generate a token instantly
- **Refresh views** - Update the lists with the refresh button

**To access the sidebar:**
1. Look for the key icon (🔑) in the left-hand activity bar
2. Click it to open the OAuth Token Generator panel
3. You'll see two sections:
   - **Environments**: All your configured OAuth environments
   - **Generated Tokens**: Currently cached tokens with expiry times

**Working with the sidebar:**
- Click any environment to generate a token and copy it to your clipboard
- Click any cached token to copy it without making a new API call
- Use the refresh button (🔄) to update the views
- Use the add button (➕) to configure new credentials

### 4. Generate Bearer Tokens

Once configured, you can generate tokens using any of these methods:

- **Sidebar Panel**: Click any environment in the OAuth sidebar panel (fastest!)
- **Command Palette**: Run `OAuth: Generate Bearer Token`
- **Status Bar**: Click on the OAuth status item in the bottom-right
- **Keyboard Shortcut**: Assign a custom shortcut to the generate token command

## Commands

| Command | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| `OAuth: Generate Bearer Token` | Generates a new bearer token for the current environment |
| `OAuth: Configure Credentials` | Opens the configuration panel to manage OAuth credentials |
| `OAuth: Select Environment` | Switch between configured OAuth environments |
| `OAuth: View Stored Tokens` | View and copy previously generated tokens |
| `OAuth: Refresh Environments` | Refreshes the environments tree view in the sidebar |
| `OAuth: Refresh Tokens` | Refreshes the tokens tree view in the sidebar |

## Requirements

- VS Code version 1.74.0 or higher
- OAuth application configured with client credentials grant type
- Network access to your OAuth provider

## Security

- All sensitive credentials are stored using VS Code's secure storage API
- Tokens are cached locally but automatically removed when expired
- No credentials are logged or transmitted except to your configured OAuth token endpoint

## Advanced Features

### Custom Headers with Environment Variables

You can use environment variables in custom header values using the `${VARIABLE_NAME}` syntax:

**Example:**
- Header: `X-Context`
- Value: `${TENANT_CONTEXT}`

The extension will substitute `${TENANT_CONTEXT}` with the value from `process.env.TENANT_CONTEXT` at runtime.

**Setting environment variables:**

macOS/Linux:
```bash
export TENANT_CONTEXT="production"
code  # Launch VS Code from terminal to inherit environment
```

Windows:
```cmd
set TENANT_CONTEXT=production
code
```

### Managing Existing Configurations

The configuration panel provides easy management of all your OAuth environments:

**To edit an environment:**
1. Open `OAuth: Configure Credentials`
2. Scroll to the "Configured Environments" section
3. Click the **✎ (Edit)** icon button on the environment you want to modify
4. The form will populate with existing values
5. Make your changes and click **Save Credentials**

**To delete an environment:**
1. Open `OAuth: Configure Credentials`
2. Scroll to the "Configured Environments" section
3. Click the **× (Delete)** icon button on the environment
4. Confirm the deletion when prompted

**To generate a token for a specific environment:**
1. Open `OAuth: Configure Credentials`
2. Click the **↻ (Get Token)** icon button next to any environment
3. The token will be generated and copied to your clipboard

## Configuration

The extension supports the following VS Code settings:

- `oauthTokenGenerator.defaultAudience`: Default audience for token requests
- `oauthTokenGenerator.tokenExpiryWarning`: Show warning when token expires in X seconds

## Troubleshooting

### "Invalid credentials" error
- Verify your token endpoint URL is correct and accessible
- Ensure your client ID and client secret are correct
- Check that your OAuth application has the "Client Credentials" grant type enabled
- Verify that the audience/scope (if specified) is valid for your provider

### "Network error" messages
- Check your internet connection
- Verify that your OAuth provider's domain is accessible
- Ensure no corporate firewall is blocking OAuth requests
- Check if the token endpoint URL is correct

### Tokens not generating
- Use the "Test Connection" feature in the configuration panel
- Check the VS Code Developer Console for detailed error messages (`Help > Toggle Developer Tools`)
- Verify your OAuth application configuration with your provider

## Supported OAuth Providers

This extension supports any OAuth 2.0 provider that implements the client credentials flow, including:

- **Auth0** - Identity platform for applications
- **Okta** - Enterprise identity management
- **Azure AD** - Microsoft Azure Active Directory
- **Custom** - Any OAuth 2.0 compliant provider

## Recent Updates (v2.0.0)

- 🌳 **NEW**: Sidebar panel with tree views for environments and tokens
- 📱 **NEW**: Responsive design that adapts to narrow panels and different screen sizes
- ⚡ **NEW**: One-click token generation from the sidebar
- 🔄 **NEW**: Real-time view of cached tokens with expiry times
- 📊 **NEW**: Visual organization of environments with current environment highlighting
- 🎨 Improved webview responsiveness with media queries
- ✨ Enhanced user experience with sidebar integration

**Previous Updates (v1.9.0)**
- ✨ Improved configuration UI with compact icon buttons
- 🗑️ Added ability to delete environments directly from the configuration panel
- 🎯 Enhanced button interactions with custom confirmation dialogs
- 🐛 Fixed environment deletion and list refresh functionality
- 💅 Cleaner, more modern interface design

See [CHANGELOG.md](CHANGELOG.md) for a complete version history.

## License

MIT License - see LICENSE file for details.

## Contributions

Love this extension? [Star us on GitHub](https://github.com/hmredmond/oauth-token-generator-vscode-extension) and [buy me a coffee](https://buymeacoffee.com/hannahredmond)

Want to make this extension even more awesome? [Send us your wish](https://github.com/hmredmond/oauth-token-generator-vscode-extension/issues/new?labels=enhancement).

Hate how it is working? [Raise an issue](https://github.com/hmredmond/oauth-token-generator-vscode-extension/issues/new?labels=bug).

Commit message:

update to support env vars in the config

readme.md, after:

# OAuth Token Generator

A VS Code extension that generates bearer tokens for OAuth providers using the client credentials flow. Supports Auth0, Okta, Azure AD, and any custom OAuth provider.

**👉 [Complete Getting Started Guide](GETTING_STARTED.md)** - Step-by-step walkthrough with examples

## Features

- 🔐 **Secure Credential Storage**: Uses VS Code's built-in secure storage for OAuth credentials
- 🌍 **Multi-Provider Support**: Configure Auth0, Okta, Azure AD, or custom OAuth providers
- 🔄 **Multi-Environment Support**: Configure and switch between different environments (dev, staging, prod)
- 📱 **Sidebar Panel Integration**: View and manage environments and tokens from the left-hand activity bar
- 🎨 **Responsive Design**: UI adapts seamlessly to narrow panels and different screen sizes
- 🔑 **Multiple Auth Methods**: Supports both request body credentials and Basic Authentication headers
- 🎯 **Custom Headers**: Add custom HTTP headers to token requests with environment variable support
- ⚡ **Quick Token Generation**: Generate bearer tokens with a single command or from the sidebar
- 📋 **Clipboard Integration**: Automatically copies generated tokens to clipboard
- 💾 **Token Caching**: Caches valid tokens to avoid unnecessary API calls
- 📊 **Status Bar Integration**: Shows current environment and provides quick access
- ✏️ **Easy Management**: Edit, delete, and manage configurations with intuitive icon buttons
- 🧪 **Credential Testing**: Test your OAuth configuration before saving
- 🌳 **Tree View**: Visual organization of environments and tokens in the sidebar

## Getting Started

📚 **New to this extension?** Check out our [comprehensive Getting Started guide](GETTING_STARTED.md) with step-by-step examples and sample configurations!

### 1. Install the Extension

Install the extension in VS Code:

1. Open the Command Palette (`Ctrl+Shift+P` / `Cmd+Shift+P`)
2. Select `Extensions: Install from VSIX...`
3. Select the provided VSIX file
4. Reload VS Code

### 2. Configure OAuth Credentials

1. Open the Command Palette (`Ctrl+Shift+P` / `Cmd+Shift+P`)
2. Run `OAuth: Configure Credentials`
3. Fill in your OAuth application details:
   - **Environment Name**: A friendly name (e.g., "dev", "staging", "prod")
   - **OAuth Provider**: Select your provider (Auth0, Okta, Azure AD, or Custom)
   - **Token Endpoint**: The full URL to your OAuth token endpoint
   - **Client ID**: Your OAuth application's client ID
   - **Client Secret**: Your OAuth application's client secret
   - **Audience**: (Optional) The API identifier/resource for your OAuth API
   - **Scope**: (Optional) Space-separated list of scopes
   - **Authentication Method**: Choose how credentials are sent:
     - **Credentials in Request Body** (Default) - Standard OAuth 2.0 flow
     - **Basic Authentication Header** - For providers requiring HTTP Basic Auth
   - **Content Type**: Select request format (JSON or Form Encoded)
   - **Custom Headers**: (Optional) Add custom HTTP headers with dynamic values

#### Example Configurations

**Auth0:**
- Token Endpoint: `https://your-tenant.auth0.com/oauth/token`
- Audience: `https://your-api.example.com`

**Okta:**
- Token Endpoint: `https://your-domain.okta.com/oauth2/default/v1/token`
- Scope: `api:read api:write`

**Azure AD:**
- Token Endpoint: `https://login.microsoftonline.com/{tenant-id}/oauth2/v2.0/token`
- Scope: `https://graph.microsoft.com/.default`

**Custom Provider with Basic Auth:**
- Token Endpoint: `https://api.example.com/oauth2/token`
- Authentication Method: `Basic Authentication Header`
- Content Type: `Form Encoded`
- Custom Headers:
  - `X-EnterpriseId`: `your-enterprise-id`
  - `X-StoreId`: `your-store-id`
  - `X-Context`: `${TENANT_CONTEXT}` (uses environment variable)

### 3. Using the Sidebar Panel

The extension adds a sidebar panel to the left-hand activity bar where you can:

- **View all configured environments** - See your dev, staging, and prod configurations at a glance
- **View cached tokens** - Check which tokens are stored and when they expire
- **Generate tokens quickly** - Click any environment to generate a token instantly
- **Refresh views** - Update the lists with the refresh button

**To access the sidebar:**
1. Look for the key icon (🔑) in the left-hand activity bar
2. Click it to open the OAuth Token Generator panel
3. You'll see two sections:
   - **Environments**: All your configured OAuth environments
   - **Generated Tokens**: Currently cached tokens with expiry times

**Working with the sidebar:**
- Click any environment to generate a token and copy it to your clipboard
- Click any cached token to copy it without making a new API call
- Use the refresh button (🔄) to update the views
- Use the add button (➕) to configure new credentials

### 4. Generate Bearer Tokens

Once configured, you can generate tokens using any of these methods:

- **Sidebar Panel**: Click any environment in the OAuth sidebar panel (fastest!)
- **Command Palette**: Run `OAuth: Generate Bearer Token`
- **Status Bar**: Click on the OAuth status item in the bottom-right
- **Keyboard Shortcut**: Assign a custom shortcut to the generate token command

## Commands

| Command | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| `OAuth: Generate Bearer Token` | Generates a new bearer token for the current environment |
| `OAuth: Configure Credentials` | Opens the configuration panel to manage OAuth credentials |
| `OAuth: Select Environment` | Switch between configured OAuth environments |
| `OAuth: View Stored Tokens` | View and copy previously generated tokens |
| `OAuth: Refresh Environments` | Refreshes the environments tree view in the sidebar |
| `OAuth: Refresh Tokens` | Refreshes the tokens tree view in the sidebar |

## Requirements

- VS Code version 1.74.0 or higher
- OAuth application configured with client credentials grant type
- Network access to your OAuth provider

## Security

- All sensitive credentials are stored using VS Code's secure storage API
- Tokens are cached locally but automatically removed when expired
- No credentials are logged or transmitted except to your configured OAuth token endpoint

## Advanced Features

### Environment Variables Support

You can use environment variables in **any credential field** using the `${VARIABLE_NAME}` syntax. This is especially useful for keeping secrets out of your stored configurations.

**Supported fields:**
- Token Endpoint URL
- Client ID
- Client Secret
- Audience
- Scope
- Custom Header Values

**Examples:**

```json
{
  "tokenEndpoint": "${AUTH0_TOKEN_ENDPOINT}",
  "clientId": "${AUTH0_CLIENT_ID}",
  "clientSecret": "${AUTH0_CLIENT_SECRET}",
  "audience": "${AUTH0_AUDIENCE}",
  "customHeaders": [
    { "key": "X-Context", "value": "${TENANT_CONTEXT}" }
  ]
}
```

The extension will substitute `${VARIABLE_NAME}` with the value from `process.env.VARIABLE_NAME` at runtime. If a variable is not found, the placeholder text is used as-is.

**Setting environment variables:**

macOS/Linux:
```bash
export AUTH0_CLIENT_ID="your-client-id"
export AUTH0_CLIENT_SECRET="your-secret"
export AUTH0_TOKEN_ENDPOINT="https://your-tenant.auth0.com/oauth/token"
code  # Launch VS Code from terminal to inherit environment
```

Windows:
```cmd
set AUTH0_CLIENT_ID=your-client-id
set AUTH0_CLIENT_SECRET=your-secret
set AUTH0_TOKEN_ENDPOINT=https://your-tenant.auth0.com/oauth/token
code
```

### Managing Existing Configurations

The configuration panel provides easy management of all your OAuth environments:

**To edit an environment:**
1. Open `OAuth: Configure Credentials`
2. Scroll to the "Configured Environments" section
3. Click the **✎ (Edit)** icon button on the environment you want to modify
4. The form will populate with existing values
5. Make your changes and click **Save Credentials**

**To delete an environment:**
1. Open `OAuth: Configure Credentials`
2. Scroll to the "Configured Environments" section
3. Click the **× (Delete)** icon button on the environment
4. Confirm the deletion when prompted

**To generate a token for a specific environment:**
1. Open `OAuth: Configure Credentials`
2. Click the **↻ (Get Token)** icon button next to any environment
3. The token will be generated and copied to your clipboard

## Configuration

The extension supports the following VS Code settings:

- `oauthTokenGenerator.defaultAudience`: Default audience for token requests
- `oauthTokenGenerator.tokenExpiryWarning`: Show warning when token expires in X seconds

## Troubleshooting

### "Invalid credentials" error
- Verify your token endpoint URL is correct and accessible
- Ensure your client ID and client secret are correct
- Check that your OAuth application has the "Client Credentials" grant type enabled
- Verify that the audience/scope (if specified) is valid for your provider

### "Network error" messages
- Check your internet connection
- Verify that your OAuth provider's domain is accessible
- Ensure no corporate firewall is blocking OAuth requests
- Check if the token endpoint URL is correct

### Tokens not generating
- Use the "Test Connection" feature in the configuration panel
- Check the VS Code Developer Console for detailed error messages (`Help > Toggle Developer Tools`)
- Verify your OAuth application configuration with your provider

## Supported OAuth Providers

This extension supports any OAuth 2.0 provider that implements the client credentials flow, including:

- **Auth0** - Identity platform for applications
- **Okta** - Enterprise identity management
- **Azure AD** - Microsoft Azure Active Directory
- **Custom** - Any OAuth 2.0 compliant provider

## Recent Updates (v2.0.0)

- 🌳 **NEW**: Sidebar panel with tree views for environments and tokens
- 📱 **NEW**: Responsive design that adapts to narrow panels and different screen sizes
- ⚡ **NEW**: One-click token generation from the sidebar
- 🔄 **NEW**: Real-time view of cached tokens with expiry times
- 📊 **NEW**: Visual organization of environments with current environment highlighting
- 🎨 Improved webview responsiveness with media queries
- ✨ Enhanced user experience with sidebar integration

**Previous Updates (v1.9.0)**
- ✨ Improved configuration UI with compact icon buttons
- 🗑️ Added ability to delete environments directly from the configuration panel
- 🎯 Enhanced button interactions with custom confirmation dialogs
- 🐛 Fixed environment deletion and list refresh functionality
- 💅 Cleaner, more modern interface design

See [CHANGELOG.md](CHANGELOG.md) for a complete version history.

## License

MIT License - see LICENSE file for details.

## Contributions

Love this extension? [Star us on GitHub](https://github.com/hmredmond/oauth-token-generator-vscode-extension) and [buy me a coffee](https://buymeacoffee.com/hannahredmond)

Want to make this extension even more awesome? [Send us your wish](https://github.com/hmredmond/oauth-token-generator-vscode-extension/issues/new?labels=enhancement).

Hate how it is working? [Raise an issue](https://github.com/hmredmond/oauth-token-generator-vscode-extension/issues/new?labels=bug).
